RHDEVDOCS-3919 - document size-based configuration for Prometheus metrics retention (#45007)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-modifying-retention-time-and-size-for-prometheus-metrics-data.adoc

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+
<1> The retention time: a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).
You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`.
<2> The retention size: a number directly followed by `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), or `EB` (exabytes).
+
The following example sets the retention time to 24 hours and the retention size to 10 gigabytes for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects:
+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: *24h*
      retentionSize: *10GB*
----

. Save the file to apply the changes. The pods affected by the new configuration restart automatically.
+

> [WARNING]

Author: Moved the warning admonition to before the procedure

Note the following behaviors of these data retention settings:

* The retention settings apply only to data block directories. 
The settings are not used for data located in the `wal` and `chunks_head` directories.
* The retention settings are used only when Prometheus writes a new data block to a data block directory, which occurs every two hours and after the write-ahead log (WAL) has recorded at least three hours of data.
* If you do not explicitly define values for either the retention time or retention size fields, retention time defaults to 15 days, and retention size is not set.
* If you define values for both retention time and retention size fields, both values apply.
If any data blocks exceed either the defined retention time or the defined size limit, then these data blocks are purged.
* If you define a value for the retention size field and do not define the retention time field, only the retention size value applies.
* If you do not define a value for the retention size field and only define a value for the retention time field, only the retention time value applies

> 

Reviewer: Should we also add how both retention and retentionSize  settings works w.r.t to cmo?

When neither retention nor retentionSize are defined, a default of 15d for time retention applies.
When "retentionSize" is defined and "retention" isn't, only size retention applies.
When "retentionSize" isn't defined and "retention" is, only time retention applies 
When both time and size retention fields are defined, both apply. If any of them is true at some point in time (either blocks are too old or the size of all blocks exceeds the size limit) then data is purged.

Author: Yes. We should add these. I will do so.

Author: Added new content to account for these scenarios

** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.
** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Edit the `ConfigMap` object:
** *To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors core {product-title} projects*:
.. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

.. Add your retention time configuration under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+

> <1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).

Reviewer: complex time like `1h30m15s` is also valid

Author: Added "You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`."

> <2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `iB`, (indicator bytes), `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), and `EB` (exabytes).

Reviewer: same as https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/45007/files#r861485517

Author: fixed

+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: *24h*
      retentionSize: *10GB*
----

** *To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects*:
.. Edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit configmap user-workload-monitoring-config
----

.. Add your retention time configuration under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+
<1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).

> <2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `iB`, (indicator bytes),`B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), or `EB` (exabytes).

Author: fixed

+
The following example sets the retention time to 24 hours and the retention size to 10 gigabytes for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects:
+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: *24h*

>       retentioSize: *10GB*

Reviewer: nit: typo  retentionSize

Author: fixed (good catch!)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="modifying-retention-time-and-size-for-prometheus-metrics-data_{context}"]
= Modifying the retention time and size for Prometheus metrics data

By default, Prometheus automatically retains metrics data for 15 days.
You can modify the retention time to change how soon data is deleted by specifying a time value in the `retention` field.
You can also configure the maximum amount of disk space used by the retained metrics data by specifying a size value in the `retentionSize` field.
If this size limit is reached, the oldest data is deleted first until the disk space used by the data is again below the maximum.

Note the following behaviors of these data retention settings:

* The retention settings apply only to data block directories. 
The settings are not used for data located in the `wal` and `chunks_head` directories.

> * The retention settings are used only when Prometheus writes a new data block to a data block directory, which occurs every two hours and after the write-ahead log (WAL) has recorded at least three hours of data.

Reviewer: Line 16 to 18 would need to rephrase:

Size-based retention takes into account only the block directories in `/prometheus`.  In other words it doesn't include the `wal` and `chunks_head`  directories.
Also the retention policy is only applied when Prometheus cuts a new block which happens every 2 hours (and after the WAL contains at least 3h of data).

Author: @slashpai - I updated the wording in lines 16-18 to read:

```
* The size-based retention policy applies only to data block directories in the `/prometheus` directory. 
This policy does not apply to data located in the `/wal` and `/chunks_head` directories.
* The size-based retention policy is applied only when Prometheus cuts a new data block, which occurs every two hours and after the write-ahead log (WAL) contains at least three hours of data.
```
Please review.

Reviewer 2: I think this could still be improved here. Based on https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2078755#c11 and whats noted in https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/main/docs/storage.md#operational-aspects I think we should highlight two aspects for size-based retention:

1. `wal` and `head_chunks` will count towards the size limit. So a limit lower than the `max wal size + head chunks` is effectively not keeping any data blocks.
2. A size limit (or a time limit for that matter) will never delete any `wal` or `head_chunk` data. This data does count towards the size limit, but is never affected by it.

Point 2 is well addressed here I think. Maybe 1 is not quite as explicit here as it could be? This can cause confusion, see the bug linked above.

cc @simonpasquier for visibilty.

Author: @jan--f @simonpasquier Per Jan's suggestion, I've revised the content as follows:

```
* The size-based retention policy applies only to data block directories in the `/prometheus` directory. 
This policy does not apply to data located in the `/wal` and `/chunks_head` directories.
* Data in the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories counts toward the retention size limit, even though data from these directories will never be purged based on size- or time-based retention policies. 
Thus, if you set a retention size limit lower than the maximum size set for the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories, in effect you have configured the system not to retain any data blocks in the data block directories.
```

Reviewer 3: Better change as
* The size-based retention policy applies all data bytes in the `/prometheus` directory, including persistent blocks, WAL and m-mapped chunks. 
* Data in the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories counts toward the retention size limit, even though data from these directories will never be purged based on size- or time-based retention policies. 
Thus, if you set a retention size limit lower than the maximum size set for the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories, in effect you have configured the system not to retain any data blocks in the prometheus data directories.

Author: Updated per your suggestion @lihongyan1

** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.
** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Edit the `ConfigMap` object:
** *To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors core {product-title} projects*:
.. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

.. Add the retention time and size configuration under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+

> <1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).

Reviewer 3: Missing the following, you only added to user-workload-monitoring
You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`.

> <2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `KiB` (indicator kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), and `EB` (exabytes).

Reviewer 3: MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB and EiB are all supported

Reviewer: @bburt-rh  Once these comments addressed too changes look good to me

@simonpasquier want to take another look?

Reviewer 4: remove `KiB` (indicator kilobytes), no need to mention MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB and EiB, 
`GB is the traditional, metric style of measurement with 1 GB equaling 1,000³ bytes. GiB is the binary method; which is the way computers measure data at 1024³ bytes.`
```
      --storage.tsdb.retention.size=STORAGE.TSDB.RETENTION.SIZE  
                                 Maximum number of bytes that can be stored for
                                 blocks. A unit is required, supported units: B,
                                 KB, MB, GB, TB, PB, EB. Ex: "512MB". Based on
                                 powers-of-2, so 1KB is 1024B. Use with server
                                 mode only.
```

Reviewer 3: @slashpai According to above comments of @juzhao, the B and iB have the same meaning here, though our validator permits B and iB, it's ok for the document not mentioning iB to be consistent with upstream doc
https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/e1403615b67d069e2c32fcfed96d82291ff657a1/manifests/0000_50_cluster-monitoring-operator_00_0prometheus-custom-resource-definition.yaml#L5246

Reviewer: Both types of units are supported by Prometheus our validator in Prometheus operator uses same validation as Prometheus. I am good with keeping docs similar to upstream

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="modifying-retention-time-and-size-for-prometheus-metrics-data_{context}"]
= Modifying the retention time and size for Prometheus metrics data

By default, Prometheus automatically retains metrics data for 15 days.
You can modify the retention time to change how soon data is deleted by specifying a time value in the `retention` field.

> You can also configure the maximum amount of disk space used by the retained metrics data by specifying a size value in the `retentionSize` field.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can also configure the maximum amount of disk space the retained metrics data uses by specifying a size value in the `retentionSize` field.
```

> If this size limit is reached, the oldest data is deleted first until the disk space used by the data is again below the maximum.

Reviewer 5: Maybe rewrite to avoid passive voice?
```suggestion
If the data exceeds the size limit, Prometheus deletes the oldest data until the data no longer exceeds the limit.
```

Reviewer 5: or 
```suggestion
If the data reaches this size limit, the oldest data is deleted first until the disk space used is again below the maximum.
```

Author: I edited to use the 2nd suggestion.

Note the following behaviors of these data retention settings:

* The size-based retention policy applies to all data block directories in the `/prometheus` directory, including persistent blocks, write-ahead log (WAL) data, and m-mapped chunks. 

> * Data in the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories counts toward the retention size limit, even though data from these directories will never be purged based on size- or time-based retention policies. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Data in the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories count toward the retention size limit, even though data from these directories is never purged based on size- or time-based retention policies. 
```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Data in the /wal and /head_chunks directories count toward the retention size limit, even though Prometheus never purges data based on size- or time-based retention policies. 
```

Author: - Re `data` as singular or plural, the ISG states `Use as a singular noun with a singular verb, even though "data" is the plural of "datum".`
- revised passive voice per your suggestion

> Thus, if you set a retention size limit lower than the maximum size set for the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories, in effect you have configured the system not to retain any data blocks in the `/prometheus` data directories.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Thus, if you set a retention size limit lower than the maximum size set for the `/wal` and `/head_chunks` directories, you have configured the system not to retain any data blocks in the `/prometheus` data directories.
```

Author: Deleted per your suggestion

> * The size-based retention policy is applied only when Prometheus cuts a new data block, which occurs every two hours and after the WAL contains at least three hours of data.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The size-based retention policy is applied only when Prometheus cuts a new data block, which occurs every two hours after the WAL contains at least three hours of data.
```

* If you do not explicitly define values for either `retention` or `retentionSize`, retention time defaults to 15 days, and retention size is not set.
* If you define values for both `retention` and `retentionSize`, both values apply.

> If any data blocks exceed either the defined retention time or the defined size limit, then these data blocks are purged.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If any data blocks exceed the defined retention time or size limit, Prometheus purges these data blocks.
```
or
```suggestion
Prometheus purges data blocks that exceed the retention time or size limit.
```

Author: Revised per your suggestion

* If you define a value for `retentionSize` and do not define `retention`, only the `retentionSize` value applies.
* If you do not define a value for `retentionSize` and only define a value for `retention`, only the `retention` value applies.

.Prerequisites

* *If you are configuring core {product-title} monitoring components*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.
** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

> . Edit the `ConfigMap` object:

Reviewer 5: You could delete this line and promote lines 39 and 82 to become optional steps.

Author: As per our Slack conversation, this fix is outside the scope of this PR. This is the way that existing content was already structured and is consistent with the existing content throughout the monitoring docs. So I'm leaving it as-is in this PR

> ** *To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors core {product-title} projects*:
> .. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:

Reviewer 5: ...in that case:
```suggestion
. Optional: To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors core {product-title} projects, edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
```

Author: Per our Slack conversation, making these structural changes to the procedure is outside the scope of this PR, so I am leaving it as-is

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

.. Add the retention time and size configuration under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+

> <1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years). You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`.

Reviewer 5: Maybe change these callouts from steps to sentence fragments so that they are consistent with the other callouts. 
```suggestion
<1> The retention time: a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years). You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`.
```

<2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), and `EB` (exabytes).
+
The following example sets the retention time to 24 hours and the retention size to 10 gigabytes for the Prometheus instance that monitors core {product-title} components:
+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: *24h*
      retentionSize: *10GB*
----

> ** *To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects*:
> .. Edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:

Reviewer 5: and 
```suggestion
. Optional: To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects, edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project:
```

Author: Per our Slack conversation, this structural change is outside the scope of this PR.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit configmap user-workload-monitoring-config

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit configmap \
    user-workload-monitoring-config
```

Author: Not sure why we'd want a line break in the command here. Leaving it as-is since none of the other sample commands use line breaks

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+
<1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).
You can also combine time values for specific times, such as `1h30m15s`.
<2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), or `EB` (exabytes).
+
The following example sets the retention time to 24 hours and the retention size to 10 gigabytes for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects:
+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: *24h*
      retentionSize: *10GB*
----

> . Save the file to apply the changes. The pods affected by the new configuration are restarted automatically.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
. Save the file to apply the changes. The pods affected by the new configuration restart automatically.
```

Author: Changed

+
[NOTE]
====

> Configurations applied to the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object are not activated unless a cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer 5: Is this a prerequisite?

Author: Good point. I moved it to the `Prerequisites" section.

====
+
[WARNING]
====

> When you save changes to a monitoring config map, the pods and other resources in the related project might be redeployed. The running monitoring processes in that project might also be restarted.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Saving changes to a monitoring config map might restart monitoring processes and redeploy the pods and other resources in the related project. The running monitoring processes in that project might also be restarted.
```

Author: fixed

// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="modifying-retention-time-and-size-for-prometheus-metrics-data_{context}"]
= Modifying the retention time and size for Prometheus metrics data

By default, Prometheus automatically retains metrics data for 15 days.
You can modify the retention time to change how soon data is deleted.
You can also configure the maximum amount of disk space used by the retained metrics data.

> If this size limit is reached, the oldest data is deleted first until the disk space used by the data is again below the maximum.

Reviewer 3: It's better append the following information
Retention takes into account only the block directories, it doesn't include the wal and chunks_head  directories.
also the retention policy is only applied when Prometheus cuts a new block which happens every 2 hours (and after the WAL contains at least 3h of data).

Author: Added two new items to the bulleted list:

```
* The retention settings apply only to data block directories. 
The settings are not used for data located in the `wal` and `chunks_head` directories.
* The retention settings are used only when Prometheus writes a new data block to a data block directory, which occurs every two hours and after the write-ahead log (WAL) has recorded at least three hours of data.
```

Note the following behaviors of these configuration settings:

* If you do not explicitly define values for either the retention time or retention size fields, retention time defaults to 15 days, and retention size is not set.

> * If you define values for both retention time and retention size fields, both values apply.

Reviewer 3: If you define values for both retention time and retention size fields, both values apply. If any of them is true at some point in time (either blocks are too old or the size of all blocks exceeds the size limit) then data is purged.

data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:

>       retention: <time_specification> <1>

Reviewer 4: Line 34
`To modify the retention time for the Prometheus instance that monitors core OpenShift Container Platform projects:`
the example also set retention size, change to
`To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors core OpenShift Container Platform projects:`

Author: fixed

      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+
<1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).

> <2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by size. Supported size values are `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), and `EB` (exabytes).

Reviewer 3: Both iB and B are supported

Author: added `iB, (indicator bytes)`

  config.yaml: |
    prometheusK8s:
      retention: *24h*
      retentionSize: *10GB*
----

> ** *To modify the retention time for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects*:

Reviewer 4: the example also set retention size, change to
`To modify the retention time and size for the Prometheus instance that monitors user-defined projects`

Author: fixed

data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      retention: <time_specification> <1>
      retentionSize: <size_specification> <2>
----
+
<1> Substitute `<time_specification>` with a number directly followed by `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days), `w` (weeks), or `y` (years).

> <2> Substitute `<size_specification>` with a number directly followed by `B` (bytes), `KB` (kilobytes), `MB` (megabytes), `GB` (gigabytes), `TB` (terabytes), `PB` (petabytes), or `EB` (exabytes).

Reviewer 3: Both B and iB are supported
